  
How to make (almost) any cake - FT  
  
  
  
120g fat 120g sugar 100g eggs (about two) 150g plain flour 1.5 tsp baking powder ¼ tsp salt 20g thin liquid 80g thick liquid For liquid fats, whisk together fat, zest, sugar and eggs. For solid fats, like softened butter, cream with sugar for one or two minutes until lightened before adding eggs. Sift the dry ingredients and fold in. Add thin/thick liquids. Pour into your lined tin(s) and bake at 170C for 25 minutes or until springy and light. (A loaf tin will take longer, about 45 minutes, cupcakes about 15 minutes.) Test by poking with a toothpick or skewer. The skewer should come out clean. Cool on a rack. Pointers For fats, butter is good for flavour, but oil will give you a longer-lasting, more moist cake. You can use a combination of both. Using ingredients with higher fat content, such as egg yolks in place of whole eggs, and creme fraiche, double cream or sour cream will result in a more tender cake. When using a thin liquid, like juice, water or coffee, pair with a fattier, thicker liquid. Adding an acidic liquid, such as yoghurt or sour cream, will give you a faster and higher rise, while improving tenderness. Fun tweaks Replace 50g of the flour with ground almonds for a richer cake. This can also give a sturdier base to prevent any fruit from sinking to the bottom. You could also increase flour content by 30g per 150g flour used. For a chocolate cake, add 30g cocoa powder and 20g extra thin liquid per 150g flour. For solid add-ins, such as chocolate chips, desiccated coconut, toasted nuts or raisins, a good starting point to go with these quantities is about 100g-150g. Marble cake Chocolate cake Citrus cake Coffee cake Coconut cake Vanilla cake Banana cake Fat Melted butter or oil Melted butter or oil Melted butter/olive oil 60/40 Melted butter or oil Melted or solid butter Melted butter or oil Melted/browned butter Sugar 60/40 split of caster sugar to light brown sugar 60/40 split of caster sugar to light brown sugar Caster sugar or light brown sugar 60/40 split of dark brown sugar to light brown sugar Caster sugar Caster sugar Light or dark brown sugar Flour Replace 50g of flour with ground almonds Eggs 2 eggs 2 eggs 2 eggs 2 eggs 2 eggs 2 eggs 2 eggs Thin liquid Milk Coffee, Guinness, stout Citrus juice Coffee Coconut milk Milk Bananas Thick liquid Sour cream, creme fraiche Sour cream, ricotta, yoghurt, creme fraiche Sour cream, ricotta, yoghurt, creme fraiche Sour cream, creme fraiche, double cream Sour cream, creme fraiche, double cream, coconut milk Ricotta, creme fraiche, yoghurt Bananas Raising agents 1.5 tsp 1.5 tsp 1.5 tsp 1.5 tsp 1.5 tsp 1.5 tsp 1.5 tsp Notes/additional ingredients Halve batter and add cocoa powder + liquid, swirl together Cocoa powder, chocolate chips Zest of 1-2 fruits. After baking, pour a syrup made of equal parts sugar, citrus juice and water on to the cake, decorate with toasted almonds  
