  
Matcha Almond Pancakes(WP)  
Servings: 4 (makes about 8 pancakes)  
  
1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon (68 grams) whole-wheat pastry flour or all-purpose flour 1/2 cup (60 grams) almond flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 1/4 teaspoon fine salt 1 tablespoon matcha  1 cup (240 milliliters) whole, reduced-fat or plant-based milk 1 large egg 1 tablespoon neutral oil, such as avocado or canola 2 teaspoons vanilla extract 1/3 cup (30 grams) sliced almonds 8 medium strawberries, hulled and sliced   Maple syrup, for serving  
##   
  
  
Total: 25 mins In a medium bowl, thoroughly whisk together the pastry flour, almond flour, baking powder and salt until combined. Sift the matcha into the mixture and whisk again to thoroughly combine. In another medium bowl, whisk together the milk, egg, oil and vanilla until combined. Add the milk mixture to the flour mixture and stir just to combine. Do not overmix; it’s okay if there are some small lumps. Let the batter hydrate for 5 to 10 minutes. Meanwhile, in a small, dry skillet over medium-high heat, toast the almonds, stirring frequently, until fragrant and lightly browned, 3 to 5 minutes. Transfer to a small bowl and let cool. Heat a large nonstick skillet or griddle over medium-high heat until hot. (To test, drop a dime-size amount of batter into the skillet and if it starts to bubble and brown right away, the pan is ready.)  Working in batches as necessary, use a 1/4 cup (60 milliliters) measure to ladle the batter into the skillet. Cook until bubbles form on top and the underside is nicely browned, about 2 minutes, then flip and cook until browned on the other side, and cooked through, 2 minutes more. Adjust the heat as necessary to prevent the pancakes from browning too fast before they’re cooked through. Transfer the pancakes to a plate and repeat with the remaining batter. Serve topped with the sliced berries and toasted nuts, with maple syrup on the side.  
Total: 25 mins In a medium bowl, thoroughly whisk together the pastry flour, almond flour, baking powder and salt until combined. Sift the matcha into the mixture and whisk again to thoroughly combine. In another medium bowl, whisk together the milk, egg, oil and vanilla until combined. Add the milk mixture to the flour mixture and stir just to combine. Do not overmix; it’s okay if there are some small lumps. Let the batter hydrate for 5 to 10 minutes. Meanwhile, in a small, dry skillet over medium-high heat, toast the almonds, stirring frequently, until fragrant and lightly browned, 3 to 5 minutes. Transfer to a small bowl and let cool. Heat a large nonstick skillet or griddle over medium-high heat until hot. (To test, drop a dime-size amount of batter into the skillet and if it starts to bubble and brown right away, the pan is ready.)  Working in batches as necessary, use a 1/4 cup (60 milliliters) measure to ladle the batter into the skillet. Cook until bubbles form on top and the underside is nicely browned, about 2 minutes, then flip and cook until browned on the other side, and cooked through, 2 minutes more. Adjust the heat as necessary to prevent the pancakes from browning too fast before they’re cooked through. Transfer the pancakes to a plate and repeat with the remaining batter. Serve topped with the sliced berries and toasted nuts, with maple syrup on the side.  
